Extracting Data from the Database
We can now start extracting
information from the database.
The following examples use
commands specific to MariaDB
but most other databases
offer similar functionality
with slightly different syntax.
Regardless of what
database software we target,
it’s best to understand the
platform-specific commands.
For example, to output
the version of MariaDB,
we can use @@version.
This should output a
“2” in the name field
and the database version
number in the comment field:
Good. It looks like that’s working.
Next, let’s output the
current database user.
This query reveals that the root user
is being used for database queries.
We can enumerate database tables
and column structures
through the information_schema
which stores information
about the database,
like table and column names.
We can use it to get the
layout of the database
so that we can craft better
payloads to extract sensitive data.
This should output a lot of data,
most of which references information
about the default objects in MariaDB.
It also includes the table names
but we need to scroll through
the output to find them.
The users table looks
particularly interesting.
Let’s target that table and
retrieve the column names.
This will output all the column
names for the users table.
Armed with this information,
we can extract the usernames
and passwords from the table.
We know that the original
query selects three columns
and the web page displays
columns two and three.
If we update our union payload,
we can display the
usernames in column two
and the passwords in column three.
This will output the database usernames
in the name field and
passwords in comments field.
Excellent.
Not only did we get the
usernames and passwords,
the passwords are all in cleartext.
We can verify these by
logging in to the admin page.
We can look at the source code
to verify what we deduced
with our black box testing.
The vulnerable code that leads
to the SQL injection is on line 39.
The injection point is at the end
of the query in the “WHERE” clause,
making it easy to use a “UNION” payload.
The results of the query are fetched and
then written out for display on line 45.
Notice that while three columns
are included in the query,
only two of them are displayed.
That is why we used columns two and three
for extracting data from another table.